-------------------------
title: Week 4  
date: 2015-06-17 22:30:00  
NOTES  
-------------------------

### Week 4 Report:
  - Minimongo integration version-1 done
    - Minimongo backed by IndexedDB and not Local Storage / MemoryDB for
    persistent storage.
    - For intial stages, only the file-name, file-size has been stored in the DB
    to get aquainted with usage of the API.
    - version-2 will include the series UID, SOP UID in a hierarchy with the
    leafnode files.  

  - Demonstration(updated with minimongo): [here](http://researchweb.iiit.ac.in/~tejas.shah/gsoc15/browserBased/).
  (The tarstream is pre-fetched on the hosting domain itself for now and not
   fetched from cancerimagingarchive.net because it's leading to
   `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` error for Cross Domains Request.

  Researching the available options for exporting files to Client's file
  system in a structured hierarchial format. This indeed is a problem that is to
  be discussed upon and finalized in today's meeting. Possible approaches
  discovered and thought so far:
  - [FileSaver.js](https://github.com/eligrey/FileSaver.js): An HTML5
  `saveAs()` FileSaver implementation. Demo [here](http://eligrey.com/demos/FileSaver.js/)
  A cross browser solution for HTML5 `saveAs()` functionality, but prompts the
  save dialog box for each of the file. Not favorable for intended solution.  

  - [HTML 5 Download Attribute](http://updates.html5rocks.com/2011/08/Downloading-resources-in-HTML5-a-download)
  Create a `download` element for each of the file and programatically trigger
  it to download files to the client's file system. Basically, `FileSaver.js`
  is built considering the HTML5 Download functionality and making the same
  compatible across different browsers.  

  The above mentioned 2 approaches would suffice our need in the case that the
  user diasbles "Ask where to save each file before downloading" in Chrome, or
  say similar thing as checking the "Do this always for same type of file" in
  Firefox. Basicaly, requiring the user to disable `saveAs()` prompts and
  downloading all our files to the default Downloads folder. Also, we need to
  ship a bash script (for \*nix, .bat for Windows and such) which the user will
  execute on completion of downloads. That will basically do the rest of
  arranging the files into the file-folder hierarchy that we need.  

  - Chrome Application: True that it's browser-specific, but we can safely
  assume that user has/can download Chrome for downloading the > 10 GB files.
  Pros:  

    - Using [`chrome.fileSystem` API](https://developer.chrome.com/apps/fileSystem)
    basically allows us to save a bunch of files to a directory by prompting
    the user to pick a *directory* to write to using a folder picker, and then
    we can read/write anything under that directory (Source: IRC discussion on
    chromium-extensions)
    - Looking around, it seems that using [`url_handlers`](https://developer.chrome.com/apps/manifest/url_handlers)
    for invoking Chrome App from a web page, [`Content scripts`](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/content_scripts)
    to inject JS into the web page and [`Messaging`](https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/messaging#external-webpage)
    for communication between Chrome Application and the web page we can
    implement the required functionalities with a nice UX too.

### Roadmap Ahead:
  To-be-discussed

### [Post-Discussion] TO DOs

================================================================================
